.\"accept a connection on a socket
.TH socket_accept 3 "5 Sep 1994" MudOS "LPC Library Functions"

.SH NAME
socket_accept() - accept a connection on a socket

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <socket_err.h>

int socket_accept( int s, string read_callback,
                   string write_callback );

.SH DESCRIPTION
The argument s is a socket that has been created with socket_create(3),
bound to an address with socket_bind(3), and is listening for connections
after a socket_listen(3). socket_accept() extracts the first connection
on the queue of pending connections, creates a new socket with the same
properties of s and allocates a new file descriptor for the socket. If no
pending connections are present on the queue, socket_accept() returns an
error as described below. The accepted socket is used to read and write data
to and from the socket which connected to this one; it is not used to accept
more connections. The original socket s remains open for accepting further
connections.
.PP
The argument read_callback is the name of a function for the driver to
call when the new socket (not the accepting socket) receives data.
The write callback should follow this format:
.IP
void read_callback(int fd)
.PP
Where fd is the socket which is ready to accept data.
.PP
The argument write_callback is the name of a function for the driver to
call when the new socket (not the accepting socket) is ready to be
written to. The write callback should follow this format:
.IP
void write_callback(int fd)
.PP
Where fd is the socket which is ready to be written to.
.PP
Note: The close_callback of the accepting socket (not the new socket)
is called if the new socket closes unexpectedly, i.e. not as the result
of a socket_close(3) call. The close callback should follow this format:
.IP
void close_callback(int fd)
.PP
Where fd is the socket which has closed.

.SH RETURN VALUES
socket_accept() returns a non-negative descriptor for the accepted
socket on success. On failure, it returns a negative value. socket_error(3)
can be used on the return value to get a text description of the error.

.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
EEFDRANGE
Descriptor out of range.
.TP
EEBADF
Descriptor is invalid.
.TP
EESECURITY
Security violation attempted.
.TP
EEMODENOTSUPP
Socket mode not supported.
.TP
EENOTLISTN
Socket not listening.
.TP
EEWOULDBLOCK
Operation would block.
.TP
EEINTR
Interrupted system call.
.TP
EEACCEPT
Problem with accept.
.TP
EENOSOCKS
No more available efun sockets.

.SH SEE ALSO
socket_bind(3), socket_connect(3), socket_create(3), socket_listen(3)
