.\"initiate a connection on a socket
.TH socket_connect 3 "5 Sep 1994" MudOS "LPC Library Functions"

.SH NAME
socket_connect() - initiate a connection on a socket

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <socket_err.h>

int socket_connect( int s, string address,
                    string read_callback,
                    string write_callback );

.SH DESCRIPTION
The argument s is a socket. s must be either a STREAM mode or a MUD mode
socket. address is the address to which the socket will attempt to connect.
address is of the form: "127.0.0.1 23"
.PP
The argument read_callback is the name of a function for the driver to
call when the socket gets data from its peer. The read callback should follow
this format:
.IP
void read_callback(int fd, mixed message)
.PP
Where fd is the socket which received the data, and message is the data
which was received.
.PP
The argument write_callback is the name of a function for the driver to
call when the socket is ready to be written to. The write callback should
follow this format:
.IP
void write_callback(int fd)
.PP
Where fd is the socket which is ready to be written to.

.SH RETURN VALUES
socket_connect() returns:
.IP
EESUCCESS on success.
.IP
a negative value indicated below on error.

.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
EEFDRANGE
Descriptor out of range.
.TP
EEBADF
Descriptor is invalid.
.TP
EESECURITY
Security violation attempted.
.TP
EEMODENOTSUPP
Socket mode not supported.
.TP
EEISLISTEN
Socket is listening.
.TP
EEISCONN
Socket is already connected.
.TP
EEBADADDR
Problem with address format.
.TP
EEINTR
Interrupted system call.
.TP
EEADDRINUSE
Address already in use.
.TP
EEALREADY
Operation already in progress.
.TP
EECONNREFUSED
Connection refused.
.TP
EECONNECT
Problem with connect.

.SH SEE ALSO
socket_accept(3), socket_close(3), socket_create(3)
