.\"causes next character of input to be sent to a specified function
.TH get_char 3 "5 Sep 1994" MudOS "LPC Library Functions"

.SH NAME
get_char - causes next character of input to be sent to a specified function

.SH SYNOPSIS
varargs void get_char( string | function fun, int flag, ... );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Enable next character of user input to be sent to the function `fun' as
an argument. The input character will not be parsed by the driver.
.PP
Note that get_char is non-blocking which means that the object calling
get_char does not pause waiting for input.  Instead the object continues
to execute any statements following the get_char.  The specified function
`fun' will not be called until the user input has been collected.
.PP
If "get_char()" is called more than once in the same execution, only the
first call has any effect.
.PP
If optional argument `flag' is non-zero, the char given by the player will
not be echoed, and is not seen if snooped (this is useful for collecting
passwords).
.PP
The function `fun' will be called with the user input as its first argument
(a string). Any additional arguments supplied to get_char will be passed on to
`fun' as arguments following the user input.

.SH BUGS
Please note that get_char has a significant bug in MudOS 0.9 and
earlier.  On many systems with poor telnet negotiation (read: almost
every major workstation on the market), get_char makes screen output
behave strangely.  It is not recommended for common usage throughout
the mudlib until that bug is fixed.  (It is currently only known to
work well for users connecting from NeXT computers.)

.SH SEE ALSO
call_other(3), call_out(3), input_to(3)
